=head1 NAME

Cartovanta - Perl resource-access infrastructure for CartoVanta tools

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Cartovanta qw(
    infile
    rgval
    onelzy
    shell_captr
    shell_qt
    shell_quote
    cr_resloc
  );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Cartovanta provides Perl utility functions for loading resource files,
evaluating Perl code stored in strings or files when that code returns
code-references, and constructing or executing Unix-shell command
strings in support of CartoVanta tools.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 infile

  my $text = infile($pathname);

Loads the contents of a file into a Perl string.

If called with no arguments, returns C<undef>.

If the file cannot be opened, returns the empty string.

=head2 rgval

  my $result = rgval($code_string, @args);

Takes as its first argument a Perl string to be evaluated with C<eval>.

Any additional arguments are passed to the code-reference returned by
that C<eval>.

If the C<eval> does not return a code-reference, returns C<undef>.

Otherwise, returns whatever is returned by the generated code-reference.

=head2 onelzy

  my $result = onelzy($pathname, @args);

Takes as its first argument the pathname of a file whose contents are
to be loaded as a Perl string and evaluated with C<eval>.

Any additional arguments are passed to the code-reference returned by
that C<eval>.

If the file cannot be loaded, or if the C<eval> does not return a
code-reference, returns C<undef>.

Otherwise, returns whatever is returned by the generated code-reference.

=head2 shell_captr

  my $output = shell_captr(@args);

Builds a shell command string from its arguments by way of C<shell_qt>,
executes that command with backticks, chomps the trailing newline from
the captured output, and returns the resulting string.

=head2 shell_qt

  my $command = shell_qt(@args);

Builds a shell command string by quoting each argument with
C<shell_quote> and separating the resulting quoted arguments with
spaces.

The returned string begins with a blank space and also ends with a
blank space.

=head2 shell_quote

  my $quoted = shell_quote($string);

Quotes a single string for use as one Unix-shell argument.

Undefined values and empty strings are rendered as C<''>.

Embedded single quotes are converted to the standard shell-safe
sequence used for representing a literal single quote inside a
single-quoted shell string.

=head2 cr_resloc

  my $result = cr_resloc(@args);

Returns the captured output of:

  cartovanta resloc ...

with any additional arguments passed along as further command-line
arguments.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2026 Sophia Elizabeth Shapira

This library is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

See the F<LICENSE> file for the full license text.

=cut
